[THEME MUSIC]
>>DAVID WILCOCK:
I'm David Wilcock,
and welcome to "Disclosure."
This is my third interview
with Graham Hancock
all about pyramids.
We're going to go pyramid
crazy on this episode
and for good reason.
If you think that
pyramids have only
appeared in Egypt
and in South America,
then you're
absolutely incorrect.
Believe it or not,
pyramids have been we found
all over the world.
Pyramids have been
found, for example,
in India, except that
they're called temples.
There are temples in India that
are very much pyramid-like.
There's also over
100 pyramids that
have been found in the
Xian province of China.
And they come up
at shallow angles
and then have flat tops looking
very similar to the ones
in Mesoamerica.
We also have the mound
builders in North America.
And many of these
mounds actually
originally were covered
with white plaster,
and they also looked
like pyramids.
And if you remember what I
was talking about with Andrew
Collins, those mounds
were excavated,
and over and over
again giant skeletons
were found inside of them.
All the evidence of the mound
builders in North America
has been completely swept away.
Most of the mounds
were destroyed.
The skeletons that
were found in them
were confiscated by the
Smithsonian Institution.
And then they acted like
nothing ever happened.
But then we go
over to Indonesia,
and there's a
pyramid you're going
to hear about in Indonesia
called Sukuh that looks exactly
like the pyramid of Kukulkan
in the middle of South America.
What the heck is going on here?
Pyramids are appearing
all over the world.
There's even pyramids that
have been found in Australia,
like the Gympie pyramid.
There's actually a
pyramid that was found
in Indonesia called Lalakon.
They've been found
all over the planet.
There's an island in
the middle of Indonesia
in which they have
found over 1,776
individual cone-shaped mounds
that are basically pyramids,
it's just that they're
round at the bottom.
So this is something
that's ongoing.
I am going to have some pyramid
episodes coming up on my show
"Wisdom Teachings" probably
later in this coming year,
2015, but this is just
tapping the beginning
of what there is to explore.
Graham Hancock is
also going to talk
about the idea of shamanism
through psychedelic drug
ingestion, something that
some people are really into.
It is a very
dangerous thing to do.
I do not recommend it.
But Graham does describe that
many indigenous cultures see
half animal, half human
beings called therianthrops
and that these beings apparently
are responsible for giving us
a great deal of knowledge.
So there's a whole lot of
interesting information
in this section of
my groundbreaking
interview with Graham Hancock.
And I invite you to
enjoy it with me.
Let's check it out.
So when we see the step
pyramids in Mesoamerica,
there is, of
course, as you know,
the Pyramid of the
Sun in Teotihuacan
has almost exactly the
same base perimeter
as the Great Pyramid of Giza.
>>GRAHAM HANCOCK: It does, yeah.
And it has the same
pi relationship
between its height
and its perimeter,
except it's two pi
instead of one pi,
if I remember correctly.
There's a geometrical connection
between the Pyramid of the Sun
and the Great Pyramid of Giza.
I went into it at some depth
in "Fingerprints of the Gods."
But it's not only there.
>>DAVID: How do
conventional archaeologists
explain pyramids on both
sides of the Atlantic Ocean?
What are they trying to say?
>>HANCOCK: Well, this is, again,
a very interesting question.
Until the last 10
years or so, the answer
of conventional archaeologists
to the appearance of pyramids
and, indeed, step pyramids
all over the world
was that this is a
complete coincidence,
that there's no causal
connection between the two.
And their argument was this.
They said, look, OK, you've
got the step pyramid of Djoser
in Saqqara in lower Egypt.
And you have the
Pyramid of the Sun
in Mexico, which is
also a step pyramid.
But the Pyramid of the
Sun is much younger
than the pyramid of Djoser by
a factor of thousands of years.
The pyramid of Djoser is
2500-- 2700, actually, BC.
And the Pyramid of the Sun
is 300 BC at the oldest,
possibly as late
as 300 or 400 AD.
So how could there be a
connection when they're
separated so far in time?
And the general
argument was that there
are no old-world
pyramids that are
as old as the pyramids of Giza.
They're all much, much younger.
And therefore, it
must be a coincidence
that the pyramid shape has been
replicated all over the world.
Well, what's utterly destroyed
that argument is the excavation
and discovery of the site
known as Caral in the Supe
Valley about 60 miles
north of Lima in Peru.
And I've just been
at Caral recently.
And this is a gigantic
pyramid complex.
And they are step pyramids.
And they've been excavated
by mainstream archaeologists.
And unfortunately
for the argument
of mainstream archaeology that
there can be no connection
because of these chronological
differences, the pyramids
of Caral and of Bandurria
a little further south
do date precisely
to 2500 to 3000
BC, exactly the same period
as the pyramids seemingly pop
up out of nowhere
in Ancient Egypt.
So suddenly the argument that
there can't be a connection
because there's a huge
chronological difference
between pyramids in the
old world and the new
is destroyed completely.
>>DAVID: And they did
stratigraphy and dated with
carbon dating--
>>HANCOCK: Absolutely.
>>DAVID: --the dirt
around these pyramids?
>>HANCOCK: Yeah, very, very
thorough, massive excavation.
And there's just
no doubt about it.
These pyramids date
2500 to 3000 BC.
And appear to have been
built on a site that
was older before that, that
there was something there
before that.
They're still getting into that.
And that's, again, the same
story that you get at Giza.
I was recently in Indonesia
about four hours' drive
from the famous
pyramid of Borobudur.
And Borobudur is
a kind of pyramid.
>>DAVID: Oh, it's amazing.
>>HANCOCK: It's an
amazing pyramid, which
I spent several days exploring.
>>DAVID: And it looks
like a step pyramid.
>>HANCOCK: It looks
But about four hours' drive
from there, up in the hills,
there's another pyramid, place
called Sukuh-- S-U-K-U-H.
And that, when my wife
Santha and I arrived there--
my wife Santha is
a photographer--
when we arrived there, we felt
that we had been transported
by some magical machine
to Central America.
We felt that we were
looking at a Mayan pyramid.
It looked just almost exactly
like the Pyramid of Kukulkan
at Chichen Itza or the
Pyramid of the Inscriptions
at Palenque, or the
pyramids of Tikal.
This pyramid confronts us.
It's a step pyramid.
And there's this eerie mist
floating around it as well.
It looked exactly like
Tikal in the dawn.
It was just an incredible thing.
And there it is sitting
there in the mountains.
And fairly firmly dated to
about the last 1,000 years,
pretty much the same sort of
age as the pyramid of Kukulkan,
actually, in Chichen Itza.
Now, what I think
we have to consider
is the possibility that
a remote common influence
has left its imprint
around all the world,
that this pyramid idea is
not popping up accidentally.
First of all, we've
established that there
are pyramids every bit as old as
the Egyptian pyramids in South
America.
And secondly, we must
consider that, yes,
there are pyramids that
were built later as
well in many different
parts of the world,
but it's not a coincidence
that they're being built.
What we're looking at
here is the manifestation
of a very ancient worldwide idea
of how monuments should be made
and what they should be
dedicated to, because
in almost all cases--
actually all cases as far
as I know-- these
monuments are dedicated
to the quest for
immortality of the soul.
>>DAVID: Doesn't it
seem, too, like there
couldn't be a more difficult
architectural project
to take on?
Why would you go to such
incredible difficulty?
How do you even organize the
people to move these blocks?
>>HANCOCK: You have to have a
very strong motive to do it.
Actually, Borobudur is
quite an interesting case,
because this was built
in the historical period.
We do have records of the
construction of Borobudur.
And Borobudur, which
is, by the way,
very large, but,
really, very small
by comparison with the
Great Pyramid of Giza,
Borobudur took the best
part of 90 years to build.
90 years.
>>DAVID: Wow.
>>HANCOCK: And how then can
Egyptologists say and continue
to insist that the
Great Pyramid was built
during the reign of Khufu
in just 20 or 23 years, when
at a later time in a very
advanced culture in Indonesia,
the monumental
project of Borobudur,
which is smaller than
the Great Pyramid
by several orders of magnitude,
that the pyramid of Borobudur,
it takes 90 years to build.
Obviously, it doesn't make
sense that the Great Pyramid
was built in just 20-23 years.
And that writes off its
connection-- direct connection
to the Pharaoh Khufu.
>>DAVID: Well, let's talk
about the casing stones
that Colonel Howard
Vyse eventually
discovered at the base
of the Great Pyramid.
A lot of people don't know
the pyramid was originally
faced with white limestone
that was mirror polished.
>>HANCOCK: Indeed.
When we look at
the pyramids today,
we're looking at the core
of the former pyramids.
In some cases, parts of the
casing stones have survived.
They've survived near the
top of the pyramid attributed
to Khafre, the second
pyramid at Giza.
You can see that
highly-polished sheer limestone
facing up near the summit
of the second pyramid.
And you can see it, but
in this case in granite,
around the base of
the third pyramid,
the pyramid attributed
to Menkaure.
In the case of the
Pyramid of Giza,
the pyramid
attributed to Khufu--
and I'm saying attributed to
because, actually, we don't
know who made these pyramids.
When Egyptologists blithely
say the Pyramid of Khufu,
the Pyramid of Khafre,
the Pyramid of Menkaure,
there really is no
authority to say that.
It's like a fairytale.
>>DAVID: Well, as you
know, Colonel Vyse
was running out of money.
And on the last day he
finds these quarry marks
that had the same errors
in them as Wallis Budge's
book for the time.
>>HANCOCK: Yeah, this is
a very interesting thing.
I've spent quite a lot of
time in the relieving chambers
above the King's Chamber
in the Great Pyramid.
And there are some factors which
militate against the forgery
argument.
And we need to keep that in
mind when we're discussing this.
For example, if you shine a
bright light into the gaps,
and in some cases, the gaps
between the blocks up there
in the relieving chambers
are about that wide,
you know, about an inch
wide in some cases.
You can shine a
bright light and you
can see that there are glyphs
appearing way back in that gap.
>>DAVID: Oh really?
>>HANCOCK: There are glyphs
of some kind appearing
way back in that gap.
There's no way that
Howard Vyse made those.
However, the Khufu
cartouche, which
is the single piece
of evidence that
connects the Great
Pyramid to Khufu
is not in one of those gaps.
The Khufu cartouche is out
there in the open in plain view.
And that actually easily
could have been forged.
The fact that there is
evidence of writing going back
between the blocks, which
could not have been forged,
doesn't rule out the possibility
that the Khufu cartouche
could've been forged.
And there is, indeed, compelling
evidence that Howard Vyse did
forge that cartouche and that
he had strong motives to do so,
given that he was
running out of money
and was in need of
a major discovery.
>>DAVID: And they
didn't find any statues?
They didn't find any treasure?
They didn't find any writing?
>>HANCOCK: No, no, no.
>>DAVID: They just go
inside the Great Pyramid,
it's just a bunch of
halls and chambers?
>>HANCOCK: The Great Pyramid
still guards its secrets.
I believe we will
find other chambers
within the Great Pyramid, those
little so-called airshafts,
which are not airshafts,
that run north and south out
of the so-called
Queen's Chamber--
and we need to say
so-called because we
don't know what these chambers
were called in antiquity--
run north and south.
They don't terminate
outside the pyramid.
>>DAVID: That's right.
>>HANCOCK: They terminate
somewhere inside the pyramid.
And just as we
know that there is
a large chamber at the bottom
of the northern and southern
shafts of the
Queen's Chamber-- we
call that chamber
the Queen's Chamber--
I think it's very
likely that we're
going to find chambers at
the other end of those shafts
as well.
And as, I think, many
people are aware,
there has been robotic
exploration of those shafts.
Those robots have, first of all,
found doors with metal handles.
When they've drilled
through the doors,
they find a gap and then
another door behind it.
It's a challenge.
It's a technical
challenge to find out
what's in those shafts.
It's almost like somebody's
playing games with us.
But it's a kind of
invitation to look further,
if you've got what it takes.
And you have to
have what it takes.
You can't be the Caliph
Mamun in the ninth century;
you're not going to
explore those shafts.
There's no way you're
going to get into them.
You have to have a pretty high
level of technical advancement
in order to explore
those shafts.
Well, we've got that level now.
And it'll be interesting
to see what comes.
I think other chambers
will be found.
Will those chambers turn out to
be the burial place of Khufu?
Personally, I don't think so.
I think they're going to rewrite
history, but I could be wrong.
I don't know.
I'm just going on
my gut feeling,
but I think we're going
to find something.
I don't buy that cartouche
in the relieving chambers.
>>DAVID: But isn't that almost
the sole datum point that they
use to--
>>HANCOCK: That is the
sole datum point connecting
the pyramid to Khufu.
Another datum point
is his name has
been found on one of
the wooden boats buried
on the south side of
the Great Pyramid.
But that isn't in the
pyramid, that's outside.
>>DAVID: That could have been a
post-hoc construction project--
>>HANCOCK: Of course,
of course, it could.
>>DAVID: --that
honored the gods.
>>HANCOCK: Of course, it could.
>>DAVID: --that came
in the flying boats.
>>HANCOCK: Yeah, well, whatever,
however one construes it,
one cannot take the name of
Khufu found outside the pyramid
as evidence that Khufu
built the pyramid.
>>DAVID: Absolutely.
>>HANCOCK: This matter is
seriously under dispute.
It'll be very
exciting, ultimately,
to see if we're told the
truth, because I have
a problem in believing anything
that mainstream archaeology
tells us about the Giza
Plateau these days.
But if we're told
the truth, it'll
be interesting to see what's
at the end of those shafts.
>>DAVID: Now,
let's also remember
that the Great Pyramid is built
on actually a mount of bedrock.
>>HANCOCK: About 30 feet high.
>>DAVID: And the whole
descending chamber
and that passage, the whole room
at the bottom, that's all been
dug into solid stone.
>>HANCOCK: Yes, yes.
Again, this is something
that casual visitors
to the Great Pyramid
don't often realize
is that the Great Pyramid was
built around a natural mound,
or hill.
It may even be the
original primeval mount
that is spoken of in the
Ancient Egyptian texts.
And cut down into that mound
is the descending corridor
that goes all the way down
to the subterranean chamber.
And the subterranean
chamber is cut
out a bedrock, as indeed is
most of the descending corridor.
The subterranean chamber
is cut out of bedrock
and it lies 100 feet
vertically beneath the base
of the Great Pyramid and
exactly beneath the apex
of the Great Pyramid.
That is itself an extraordinary
feat of geometry--
>>DAVID: Absolutely.
>>HANCOCK: --in order
to achieve that.
So what we are to envisage
is a natural mound,
which, I believe, was
sacred for thousands
and thousands of years going
way back into the past.
At some point, a
channel is cut down
into that mound, a
perfectly straight corridor
about 3 feet 5 inches
high and 3 feet
5 inches wide, which means
you have to kind of ape
walk down it or almost
crawl, actually.
You can't stand up in there.
>>DAVID: I've been
there; I know.
>>HANCOCK: Many times
I've been there.
And it's an eerie
feeling to go down there.
You come down to
the bottom and you
get into a horizontal
section where
the ceiling is even lower.
You crawl through the
horizontal section
and you find yourself in
the subterranean chamber,
which is cut out the bedrock.
And on the opposite
side of it is
another corridor, which
I've also been into,
which comes to a dead end
after about 50 or 60 feet.
>>DAVID: The ceiling is
flat, but the floor is wavy.
>>HANCOCK: The
floor is all wavy.
>>DAVID: It's very strange.
>>HANCOCK: It's a
very strange place.
And this, I would
say, without a doubt,
is the beginning of the
Great Pyramid project.
This is the sacred place that
is deeply and remotely ancient.
And around it is then
built the Great Pyramid.
And when exactly that
was done is not clear.
I personally am not
one of those who
would divorce the Ancient
Egyptians entirely
from the project.
I think the Ancient Egyptians
were involved in the completion
and finishing off
of that project,
and their handiwork
is everywhere to see.
And I think it's foolish to
deny that they were involved.
But they themselves
said that they
had received their
knowledge from the gods,
that they were the
descendants of the gods,
that the followers of Horus
were the teachers of wisdom
to Ancient Egyptians.
So the Ancient Egyptians didn't
see themselves as separate.
They saw themselves as
part of that continuity.
I think the site itself-- and
I've been making this point
since I published
"Fingerprints of the Gods"--
the site itself we have to date
back 12 and a half thousand
years ago or so,
possibly further.
But it's a site on which there
are periods of inactivity,
and then activity resumes.
There's some kind
of continuity that's
being maintained on that site.
And I think the
Ancient Egyptian notion
of a secretive brotherhood
called the Followers of Horus
is particularly intriguing
in that respect.
I envisage something like a
monastery being established
on that site 12 and a
half thousand years ago
being responsible for the
creation of the sphinx,
of the giant megalithic temples
that stand beside the sphinx,
of the so-called mortuary
temples that stand
beside the Great Pyramids.
I don't think that those
were mortuary temples
for particular pharaohs.
I think they had some
other function altogether
and that they all belong
to this prehistoric period,
that the platforms, the base
platforms of the pyramids
were created at that time.
But I do believe the
pyramids were finished off
when the Followers
of Horus switched
on Egyptian civilization,
historical Egyptian
civilization,
roundabout 3000 BC.
>>DAVID: Let's talk
about these Followers
of Horus a little bit.
Manetho's pharaonic dynasty
lists, the king lists,
conventional archaeologists
start at a certain point
and they find all
this evidence that
validates that Manetho's
king list was correct.
>>HANCOCK: I know, I know.
>>DAVID: But then
they arbitrarily say,
as soon as their
belief system can't
stretch past, all the other
stuff before that he made up.
So could you tells us
that story a little bit?
>>HANCOCK: I remain
stunned by the hypocrisy
of the archaeological
establishment in that respect,
because the entire chronology of
historical Ancient Egypt as we
have it is based on
those king lists.
They occur in quite
a number of places.
One of the best of
them is in the temple
of Seti I in Abydos
in upper Egypt,
where we see the pharaoh Seti I
showing his young son, Ramesses
II, a list of all the pharaohs
who've ruled before their time.
They're in the New Kingdom,
these guys, 1300-1400 BC,
thereabouts.
And Seti is showing his son this
is the lineage from which you
descend.
Here are the pharaohs
who ruled before us.
And there are the cartouches
cut into the wall,
extending away from you for
the best part of 200 feet down
that wall.
And that list of pharaohs,
along with others like it,
is used by Egyptologists
to compile their chronology
of Ancient Egypt, which for
them begins in roundabout 3000
BC with the first dynasty.
What they neglect to tell us,
and inconveniently for them,
is that the list doesn't stop
at 3000 BC; it goes back.
It goes back beyond that.
It goes back tens of
thousands of years
beyond that 30 plus thousand
years back into the past
that list continues.
And to me it's extraordinary
that Egyptologists say,
well, this list is perfectly
accurate for the period
that we recognize as the
historical development
of civilization.
But anything before that,
the Egyptians made it up.
It was like a fantasy novel.
No.
I think the Ancient
Egyptians knew much more
about their history than any
modern Egyptologists does.
And I think we need to take
those kings lists extremely
seriously, that there is
a lineage stretching back
deep into prehistoric times.
>>DAVID: And those people
get more interesting,
the Neteru, if you go back.
>>HANCOCK: Yes, yeah.
>>DAVID: Let's talk
a little about that.
>>HANCOCK: The gods, well--
>>DAVID: They become different.
They're not like what the
pharaohs looked like later,
right?
>>HANCOCK: Well, I wouldn't
comment so much on how they
looked, but how they
were, their powers--
>>DAVID: Their description.
>>HANCOCK: --their abilities,
what they could do.
How Isis could control and
move objects with her voice,
how she could freeze a man in
his tracks with a single word.
This is what is
wonderful about the gods,
that these were
human-like in form.
A lot of them are depicted,
of course, with animal heads.
This is what are referred
to as therianthrops,
from the Greek "therion,"
which means "wild beast"
and "anthropos,"
which means "man."
As a matter of fact,
all of the Egyptian gods
are depicted as animal-headed--
the god Thoth depicted
with a head of an
ibis, also sometimes
as an ape; the Anubis,
with the head of a jackal.
It's very interesting that
all of that is done there.
And I think we have to
consider the possibility
that in the lineage
of Ancient Egypt,
there was an embracing of
shamanistic altered states
of consciousness.
The Ancient Egyptian priesthood
was, generally speaking,
one says that priests
are not shamans,
but the priests of
Ancient Egypt descended
from a shamanistic lineage.
There's no doubt that
they used the blue water
lily as a means of
entering altered states
of consciousness.
The Ancient Egyptian
tree of life
has recently been identified by
the ethnopharmacologist Dennis
McKenna as Acacia nilotica.
And Acacia nilotica
is a DMT-bearing tree.
So when we see those pictures
of the Ancient Egyptians passing
a pipe to one another, we now
know what they were smoking.
I believe they were entering
deeply-altered states
of consciousness.
Their exploration of the
mystery of life after death,
of what happens to us
beyond the veil of death
was not an idle pursuit
indulging in fantasy.
This was an exploration
in altered states
of consciousness.
And it's well known that in
altered states of consciousness
you can see the same results on
the walls of the painted caves
all around the world, that in
altered states of consciousness
we see visions and
images of therianthrops,
of beings that are part
animal and part human in form.
And I prefer that
explanation to the appearance
of the Egyptian
gods, that they are
encountered in vision, which
does not mean they're not real.
And entering a
visionary state may
allow us to receive other levels
of reality that are normally
closed off to our senses.
But I prefer that than to
a simple anatomical notion
that they were some
kind of hybrid beings.
That's my own
personal preference.
I don't claim necessarily
that I'm right,
but that's where I come
from when I look at this.
>>DAVID: Well, you wrote
a book that's basically
a box called "Supernatural."
>>HANCOCK: Yeah, I've
written some boxes, yes.
I did. "Supernatural"
is a large book.
In the US hardback edition,
they published the entire book.
But in the paperback,
they felt they
should take mercy on readers and
do a slightly abridged version.
So about eight
chapters on cave art
were cut out of the paperback.
And I boiled them
down into one chapter.
But if people want to
read the whole story,
it's in the hardback,
which is still available.
But if they want a quicker
read, the paperback
boils down the essential
information on cave art
into a single chapter.
>>DAVID: It doubles as
an excellent weapon.
>>HANCOCK: It doubles as an
excellent weapon or a door
stop.
You can keep your door
open with "Supernatural."
And what I was looking
at was the phenomenon
of visionary art,
which is undoubtedly
what the art of the
painted caves is
and which is coupled
with a radical leap
forward in the evolution
of human behavior.
And the subtitle
of "Supernatural"
was "Meetings With the
Ancient Teachers of Mankind."
And the idea that I'm
exploring in that book
is could we be
encountering intelligences,
other intelligences,
in visionary states?
In a normal, alert,
problem-solving state
of consciousness, we may
never encounter them.
But in a trance
state, which is what
shamans are the
masters of creating,
that we might
encounter teachers,
teaching entities, who have
an interest in the human race
and who have an interest
in bringing us on,
or manipulating our
evolution in certain ways.
>>DAVID: So you're
basically theorising
that there's a commonality
in cave paintings
and shamanic visions
throughout the world that
can't be explained by any
type of conventional migration
patterns?
>>HANCOCK: Yes.
What I'm suggesting,
first of all,
it involves looking at the
whole mystery of consciousness,
which any honest
scientist will admit
is one of the great unsolved
mysteries of science.
We know we're
conscious, but we don't
know what consciousness is.
Or the conventional view
of mainstream materialist
scientists-- and a
lot of scientists
are materialists,
in other words,
they seek to reduce
everything to matter--
that the human being is not
more than the sum of his or her
parts, that we are
just these bodies,
and that somehow in
the story of evolution,
we grew these big brains, which
helped us to survive-- survival
of the fittest.
And an accidental byproduct
of these big brains
is the thing that we
call consciousness.
I don't agree with that view.
I think consciousness
comes first,
and the material
body comes second.
I believe that the ancient
traditions were right
when they saw us as
spirits, if you wish,
incarnated in material form.
And perhaps for a
particular reason.
Perhaps we are here to learn
lessons, to grow, to develop,
so that, ultimately,
we can ascend
to another level of existence.
And what I explored
in "Supernatural"
was the absolute mystery, that
the same entities and beings
are depicted in rock and cave
art all around the world.
And those same
entities and beings
appear in the Ancient
Egyptian works of art as well.
So we cannot separate Ancient
Egypt from this system of ideas
that altered states
of consciousness.
And this is where
sometimes get myself
into trouble with the UFO lobby.
I do believe that
there are UFOs.
I don't deny it for a moment.
And I have no
doubt that there is
something real behind the
phenomenon that we call aliens.
And furthermore, that it has
powerful physical aspects.
But I do not believe that
we will solve those problems
if we confine
ourselves exclusively
to physical investigations.
We have to investigate the
mystery of human consciousness
and the fact that, in altered
states of consciousness,
encounters with these
entities are registered
and are enormously influential
and effective upon those
who have those encounters.
If we're going to solve
this mystery, which
is a very ancient
mystery, we need
to look at the mystery of
human consciousness as well.
I'm not saying that there isn't
a physical aspect to the UFO
phenomenon, because there is.
I'm not saying there isn't
the physical aspect to what we
call alien abductions,
because there is.
But if we confine
ourselves to that
and don't consider the
consciousness implications,
the fact that you can induce
these experiences by putting
a volunteer into a deeply
altered state of consciousness,
if we don't take that
into account as well,
we'll never fully understand
what's going on here.
I would think if I
were asked to put money
on this, some kind
of bet, I would
say that the UFO/alien
phenomenon has as much
to do with
interdimensional contact
as it has to do with
interstellar contact.
>>DAVID: So you heard the man.
UFO contact may
have as much to do
with interdimensional
contact as it does
with interplanetary contact.
So if you're wondering where
you can score some blue water
lily or acacia,
again, please, we're
not telling you to
take psychedelic drugs.
They are dangerous.
If you don't do it correctly or
even if you do do it correctly,
there is always a
risk of developing
severe mental
illness and problems,
including schizophrenia,
which can be irreversible.
So when people use
these drugs, they
are taking risks
with their lives,
and we do not
recommend doing it.
Now, I want to talk to you about
all of the implications of what
Hancock has to say, because what
we're ultimately seeing here
is that Atlantis was not just
some civilization in the middle
of the Atlantic ocean, it
was a worldwide civilization.
That's the implications of what
Graham Hancock is telling us.
These people could toss around
100-ton blocks of stone,
just like they're
juggling Lincoln Logs.
It was no big deal for them.
They did these pyramids
all over the place.
And that's what
is so fascinating.
Coming up next time, we're
going to be interviewing
one of the truly new
groundbreaking pioneers
in this field of
ancient civilizations
research for the purposes of
our disclosure investigation.
I'm talking about
Laird Scranton.
If you haven't heard
of them before,
you probably will be hearing a
lot more of him in the future,
because he has put together an
incredible trail of breadcrumbs
suggesting that a single
primordial civilization was
responsible for Ancient
Egypt, for what happened
with Buddhism, for what
happened with the Tibetans,
and that a remnant of
their society migrated
off and survived in secret
in a little tribe in Mali
called the Dogon.
And among other
things, they preserved
records of their origins
coming from the star Sirius.
That's coming up next
time here on "Disclosure."
And I'm your host,
David Wilcock.
Thank you for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]